[Connectors][GenAI] Inference Service Kibana connector (#189027)
elastic/kibana: docs/management/connectors/action-types/inference.asciidoc

[[inference-action-type]]

> == {inference} connector and action

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== {inference} connector and action
```

` {inference}` doesn't resolve to anything right now. 

You'll either need to write out the full term, or add a variable to this file: https://github.com/elastic/docs/blob/master/shared/attributes.asciidoc

Author: Fixed by using existing {infer} variable.

> == {inference} connector and action

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== {infer-cap} connector and action
```

++++
<titleabbrev>{inference}</titleabbrev>
++++
:frontmatter-description: Add a connector that can send requests to {inference}.
:frontmatter-tags-products: [kibana] 
:frontmatter-tags-content-type: [how-to] 
:frontmatter-tags-user-goals: [configure]

> The {inference} connector uses {es} client to send requests to {inference}. The connector uses the <<execute-connector-api,run connector API>> to send the request.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The {infer} connector uses {es} client to send requests to {infer}. The connector uses the <<execute-connector-api,run connector API>> to send the request.
```

[float]
[[define-inference-ui]]
=== Create connectors in {kib}

You can create connectors in *{stack-manage-app} > {connectors-ui}*.  For example:

[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/inference-connector.png[{inference} connector]
// NOTE: This is an autogenerated screenshot. Do not edit it directly.

[float]
[[inference-connector-configuration]]
==== Connector configuration

> {inference} connectors have the following configuration properties:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{infer-cap} connectors have the following configuration properties:
```

Name::      The name of the connector.

> Service::   The {inference} supported provider service.
> Task type:: The {inference} task type, it depends to the selected service.
> Inference ID:: The {inference} ID.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Service::   The {infer} supported provider service.
Task type:: The {infer} task type, it depends to the selected service.
Inference ID:: The {infer} ID.
```

Provider configuration:: Settings for service configuration.
Provider secrets:: Configuration for authentication.
Task type configuration:: Settings for task type configuration.

[float]
[[inference-action-configuration]]
=== Test connectors

You can test connectors with the <<execute-connector-api,run connector API>> or
as you're creating or editing the connector in {kib}. For example:

[role="screenshot"]

> image::management/connectors/images/inference-completion-params.png[{inference} params test]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
image::management/connectors/images/inference-completion-params.png[{infer} params test]
```

// NOTE: This is an autogenerated screenshot. Do not edit it directly.

> The {inference} actions have the following configuration properties. Properties depends to the selected task type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The {infer} actions have the following configuration properties. Properties depend on the selected task type.
```

[float]
[[inference-connector-perform-completion]]
=== Connector perform completion task

The following example performs a completion on the example question.

> Input::      The text on which you want to perform the inference task. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Input::
The text on which you want to perform the inference task. For example:
```

> Input::      The text on which you want to perform the inference task. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Input::      The text on which you want to perform the {infer} task. For example:
```

+
[source,text]
--

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

{
  input: 'What is Elastic?'
}
--

[float]
[[inference-connector-perform-text-embedding]]

> === Connector perform text embedding

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Perform text embedding
```

Most of these subheadings probably don't need the "Connector" prefix.

The following example performs text embedding.

> Input::      The text on which you want to perform the inference task. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Input::
The text on which you want to perform the inference task. For example:
```

> Input::      The text on which you want to perform the inference task. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Input::      The text on which you want to perform the {infer} task. For example:
```

+
[source,text]
--

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

{
  input: 'The sky above the port was the color of television tuned to a dead channel.',
  task_settings: {
    input_type: 'ingest
  }
}
--

> Input type::      An optional string that overwrites the connector's default model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Input type::
An optional string that overwrites the connector's default model.
```

[float]
[[inference-connector-perform-rerank]]
=== Connector perform rerank task

The following example performs reranking on the example input.

> Input::      The text on which you want to perform the inference task. Should be a string array. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Input::
The text on which you want to perform the inference task. Should be a string array. For example:
```

> Input::      The text on which you want to perform the inference task. Should be a string array. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Input::      The text on which you want to perform the {infer} task. Should be a string array. For example:
```

+
[source,text]
--

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

{
  input: ['luke', 'like', 'leia', 'chewy', 'r2d2', 'star', 'wars'],
  query: 'star wars main character'
}
--

> Query::      The search query text.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Query::
The search query text.
```

[float]
[[inference-connector-perform-sparse-embedding]]
=== Connector perform sparse embedding task

The following example performs sparse embedding on the example sentence.

> Input::      The text on which you want to perform the inference task. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Input::
The text on which you want to perform the inference task. For example:
```

> Input::      The text on which you want to perform the inference task. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Input::      The text on which you want to perform the {infer} task. For example:
```

+
[source,text]
--

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

[[inference-action-type]]
== {infer-cap} connector and action
++++
<titleabbrev>{inference}</titleabbrev>
++++
:frontmatter-description: Add a connector that can send requests to {inference}.
:frontmatter-tags-products: [kibana] 
:frontmatter-tags-content-type: [how-to] 
:frontmatter-tags-user-goals: [configure]

> The {infer} connector uses {es} client to send requests to {infer}. The connector uses the <<execute-connector-api,run connector API>> to send the request.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The {infer} connector uses the {es} client to send requests to an {infer} service. The connector uses the <<execute-connector-api,run connector API>> to send the request.
```

[float]
[[define-inference-ui]]
=== Create connectors in {kib}

> You can create connectors in *{stack-manage-app} > {connectors-ui}*.  For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can create connectors in *{stack-manage-app} > {connectors-ui}*. For example:
```

[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/inference-connector.png[{inference} connector]

> // NOTE: This is an autogenerated screenshot. Do not edit it directly.

Reviewer 2: Is it really auto-generated or is this string a copy/paste error?

Author: copy/paste

[float]
[[inference-connector-configuration]]
==== Connector configuration

{infer-cap} connectors have the following configuration properties:

Name::      The name of the connector.

> Service::   The {infer} supported provider service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Service::   The supported {infer} service provider.
```

> Task type:: The {infer} task type, it depends to the selected service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Task type:: The {infer} task type, it depends on the selected service.
```

> Inference ID:: The {infer} ID.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Inference ID:: The unique identifier of the {infer} endpoint.
```

Provider configuration:: Settings for service configuration.
Provider secrets:: Configuration for authentication.
Task type configuration:: Settings for task type configuration.

[float]
[[inference-action-configuration]]
=== Test connectors

> You can test connectors with the <<execute-connector-api,run connector API>> or
> as you're creating or editing the connector in {kib}. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can test connectors using the <<execute-connector-api,run connector API>> or
while creating or editing the connector in {kib}. For example:
```

[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/inference-completion-params.png[{infer} params test]
// NOTE: This is an autogenerated screenshot. Do not edit it directly.

> 

Reviewer 2: I think it would be better to have all the task types listed under a main section. Please review the title suggestion below (`Inference connector actions`) as I'm not entirely familiar with the connector terminology.

```suggestion
[float]
[[inference-connector-actions]]
=== {infer-cap} connector actions

```

The {infer} actions have the following configuration properties. Properties depend on the selected task type.

[float]
[[inference-connector-perform-completion]]

> === Connector perform completion task

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
==== Completion
```

> The following example performs a completion on the example question.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example performs a completion task on the example question.
```

Input::
The text on which you want to perform the {infer} task. For example:
+
[source,text]
--
{
  input: 'What is Elastic?'
}
--

[float]
[[inference-connector-perform-text-embedding]]

> === Perform text embedding

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
==== Text embedding
```

> The following example performs text embedding.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example performs a text embedding task.
```

Input::
The text on which you want to perform the {infer} task. For example:
+
[source,text]
--
{
  input: 'The sky above the port was the color of television tuned to a dead channel.',
  task_settings: {

>     input_type: 'ingest

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    input_type: 'ingest'
```

  }
}
--
Input type::
An optional string that overwrites the connector's default model.

[float]
[[inference-connector-perform-rerank]]

> === Connector perform rerank task

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
==== Reranking
```

> The following example performs reranking on the example input.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example performs a reranking task on the example input.
```

Input::
The text on which you want to perform the {infer} task. Should be a string array. For example:
+
[source,text]
--
{
  input: ['luke', 'like', 'leia', 'chewy', 'r2d2', 'star', 'wars'],
  query: 'star wars main character'
}
--
Query::
The search query text.

[float]
[[inference-connector-perform-sparse-embedding]]

> === Connector perform sparse embedding task

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
==== Sparse embedding
```

> The following example performs sparse embedding on the example sentence.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example performs a sparse embedding task on the example sentence.
```

Input::
The text on which you want to perform the {infer} task. For example:
+
[source,text]
--
{
  input: 'The sky above the port was the color of television tuned to a dead channel.'
}
--

[float]
[[inference-connector-networking-configuration]]
=== Connector networking configuration

> Use the <<action-settings, Action configuration settings>> to customize connector networking configurations, such as proxies, certificates, or TLS settings. You can set configurations that apply to all your connectors or use `xpack.actions.customHostSettings` to set per-host configurations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the <<action-settings, Action configuration settings>> to customize connector networking configurations, such as proxies, certificates, or TLS settings. You can apply these settings to all your connectors or use `xpack.actions.customHostSettings` to set per-host configurations.
```
